.. _whatsnew_020:

0.2.0 (February 14, 2024)
-------------------------

Breaking Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Updated function :py:func:`~pvanalytics.system.infer_orientation_fit_pvwatts`
  to more closely align with the PVWatts v5 methodology. This includes incorporating
  relative airmass and extraterrestrial irradiance into the Perez total irradiance model,
  accounting for array incidence loss (IAM), and including losses in the PVWatts
  inverter model. Additionally, added optional arguments for bounding the azimuth range in
  during least squares optimization. (:issue:`147`, :pull:`180`)
* Updated function :py:func:`~pvanalytics.quality.time.shifts_ruptures` to align with the
  methodology tested and reported on at PVRW 2023 ("Survey of Time Shift Detection Algorithms
  for Measured PV Data"). This includes converting the changepoint detection algorithm from
  Pelt to Binary Segmentation (which runs much faster), and performing additional processing
  to each detected segment to remove outliers and filter by a quantile cutoff instead of the
  original rounding technique. (:pull:`197`)


Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Added function :py:func:`~pvanalytics.features.daytime.get_sunrise`
  for calculating the daily sunrise datetimes for a time series, based on the
  :py:func:`~pvanalytics.features.daytime.power_or_irradiance` day/night mask output. 
  (:pull:`187`)
* Added function :py:func:`~pvanalytics.features.daytime.get_sunset`
  for calculating the daily sunset datetimes for a time series, based on the
  :py:func:`~pvanalytics.features.daytime.power_or_irradiance` day/night mask output. 
  (:pull:`187`)
* Updated function :py:func:`~pvanalytics.features.daytime.power_or_irradiance`
  to be more performant by vectorization; the original logic was using a lambda call that was
  slowing the function speed down considerably. This update resulted in a ~50X speedup. (:pull:`186`)


Bug Fixes
~~~~~~~~~
* ``pvanalytics.__version__`` now correctly reports the version string instead
  of raising ``AttributeError``. (:pull:`181`)
* Compatibility with pandas 2.0.0 (:pull:`185`) and future versions of pandas (:pull:`203`)
* Compatibility with scipy 1.11 (:pull:`196`)
* Updated function :py:func:`~pvanalytics.quality.gaps.trim` to handle pandas 2.0.0 update for tz-aware timeseries (:pull:`206`)

Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Advance minimum ``pvlib`` to 0.9.4, ``numpy`` to 0.16.0,
  ``pandas`` to 1.0.0, and ``scipy`` to 1.6.0. (:pull:`179`, :pull:`185`)

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Online docs now use ``pydata-sphinx-theme`` instead of the built-in
  ``alabaster`` theme. (:issue:`176`, :pull:`178`)
* Added PVFleets QA pipeline examples for checking temperature, irradiance, and power
  streams. (:issue:`201`, :pull:`202`)
* Added a gallery page for :py:func:`~pvanalytics.quality.time.shifts_ruptures`.
  (:pull:`192`)

Testing
~~~~~~~
* Added testing for python 3.11 and 3.12. (:pull:`189`, :pull:`204`)


Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Kirsten Perry (:ghuser:`kperrynrel`)
* Kevin Anderson (:ghuser:`kanderso-nrel`)
* Cliff Hansen (:ghuser:`cwhanse`)
* Abhishek Parikh (:ghuser:`abhisheksparikh`)
* Quyen Nguyen (:ghuser:`qnguyen345`)
* Adam R. Jensen (:ghuser:`adamrjensen`)
* Chris Deline (:ghuser:`cdeline`)
